## Short-Term Thinking: Software's Deadly Sin
By Joseph D. Kemper

When building an average home in the United States, 500-1,000 errors might trigger costly repairs post-construction. Yet, in corporate software with 100,000 lines of code on average, each line risks multiple serious defects including logic errors, memory leaks, null pointers, or security flaws. It doesn’t matter which direction you place the 2x4, and a missed nail won’t topple the whole house down, but a missed semi-colon in software could crash your whole program. Building homes demands prerequisites like planning and permits, and if you skip these you are labeled as shady and would likely be forced out of business. Yet in software where 40% of projects skip the critical planning and other prerequisites (State of Agile, 2025), executives get bonuses for finishing the project under budget because they pushed to skip the parts that help the project get started right and avoid costly fixes later when the bugs are inevitably discovered by the end user destroying the company’s good will and adding to the $2.41 trillion in annual costs (Consortium for Information & Software Quality, 2022) that will be paid later by US corporations to fix the poor software they just built (that is if they ever actually try to fix their buggy software), all in the name of short-term quarterly gains. 
Throwing numbers around like the $2.41 trillion dollars added to the already huge backlog of backlog of bad software we have already produced gives us a big number, but really does not mean much. There are human costs of poor software quality as well, costs that cannot be properly calculated. Here are just a few of the stories of what poor software quality costs real people.
Between 1985 and 1987, poorly build software killed at least 6 people and left others with severe burns and even caused the need to amputate limbs (Leveson, 1995). That problem happened because of a combination of old code that was not properly checked along with inadequate safety checks built in. Essentially people took shortcuts, and because of that, people died, and others were left scarred for life. 
In 2012 Knight’s Capital went from a wall street giant to bankruptcy in 45 minutes over poor software quality causing hundreds of people to lose their jobs (SEC, 2012). The problem? The code was not properly tested for real world scenarios, the legacy code was not properly checked for how it would behave with the new code, and that shortcut cost people their jobs. 
In 2017, 147 million Americans had their identities stolen from Equifax, one of the 3 companies we rely on to track our credit score, leaving millions of people needing to freeze their credit, spend endless hours on the phone disputing fraudulent loans, and even tax liens (Equifax, 2017). What happened? They chose to ignore warnings of a months old bug that caused lax security. 
In 2018 and 2019 two Boeing 737 Max aircraft crashed in Indonesia and Ethiopia killing 346 people, including young families (NTSB, 2019). The problem again boils down to people took shortcuts, shortcuts that killed people and left others without friends and family. 
In 2018 a software glitch sent an emergency alert warning blaring "BALLISTIC MISSILE THREAT INBOUND TO HAWAII. SEEK IMMEDIATE SHELTER. THIS IS NOT A DRILL," causing many to have to deal with PTSD-like symptoms as parents had their children hide in manhole covers as they said their final goodbyes thinking they would soon be dead (HEMA, 2018). The culprit was no safeguards against human error along with poor user interface design which could have been discovered through simple useability testing. 
These are just a half-dozen stories of the real-world effects of poor-quality code, but even if your company is not producing anything that you think might not devastate someone’s life, in 2016 Uber faced a €45 million lawsuit due to the fallout of a notification bug caused by a lack of testing for edge cases like sharing accounts (Uber Technologies, 2016). 
The thing that all of these cases have in common is that they were all caused because someone (likely in management) skipped essential steps in the software development process. Currently developers everywhere, are constantly left with the impression that they need to skip essential steps like writing test code for the code the wrote, while managers everywhere push for more and more steps to be skipped because they (who often know nothing about programming) view it as non-essential. The short-term thinking driven by executives obsessing over quarterly gains is literally killing people and destroying lives. 
Even if you just produce a game that takes no information from the user, and if it crashed would never cause any damage to the end user, is your reputation not worth protecting? Are you worth the time and effort to take the proper steps to ensure you put out good quality work? And even if you could answer no to those last two questions, chances are, the bugs your shortcut will cost, will affect someone else, and they are certainly worthy of respect. They are certainly worthy of the time to properly check your work, to stand up to your boss when he/she demands you skip a critical step. Maybe it’s time we start labeling software development companies who take shortcuts on software development as shady and then start forcing them out of business for the terrible reputation they should have? 
Or here is an even better idea. Imagine a world where a CEO gets up to an all-hands meeting and proceeds to apologize to their employees after finding out that an executive had been pushing to skip planning steps and left programmers feeling like they did not have time to make sure their code was written properly. Imagine a world where a client comes into a meeting asking, “Just get it out quick and cheap” and in response they are told, “I’m sorry, we won’t compromise on quality, and that is what you are asking. You said you came here because the other guys have a bad reputation. What you are asking would give us a bad reputation, and we won’t do that, even if it means losing your business.” This is the world I envision. 
Will you join me? What personal stories do you have of the effects of poor software quality? Share them in the comments and then share this with your friends so we can build a movement to purge the world of software’s deadly sin. 
