## The Programming Excellence Framework

By Joseph D. Kemper

As I sit down to create this Programming Excellence Framework, I do so not as a seasoned executive or a veteran of programming teams, but as someone who has spent years studying the principles of mastery and excellence. What qualifies me to create this framework? On the surface, perhaps nothing. But the truth is, the same principles that guide and Olympic swimmer to gold or an immigrant from South Africa to become the world’s richest man, when abstracted to their core essence can be used to let a teacher, a mechanic, or a programmer excel in their individual crafts. The true principles of excellence are not confined to one field; they are universal and timeless and apply to everything you may ever try to excel at. 

Brendon Burchard, one of the world's leading personal development experts has said that there’s been nothing truly new in personal development since at least Jesus Christ, and maybe even Adam. The thing that differentiates the many personal development experts is not the new principles they apply, but the templates they throw on top of those principles. This is how eternal the principles of success truly are. These same principles were used by Mahatma Gandhi, Albert Einstein, Leonardo da Vinci, Socrates, Jane Austen, Martin Luther King Jr, Muhammad Ali, and countless others. By studying these principles and abstracting them to their core essence, we can use them to excel at anything in life, and that is exactly what I am going to do as I build this framework. From there, I will use this framework to guide my efforts to excel in programming.  
